# Add support for 1.23 and drop support of 1.19

**autero1** commented *Sep 6, 2022*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes #171 

This PR updates the `eks sync-core-components` command to add support for k8s version 1.23. This also removes support for 1.19, which [has reached end of support in EKS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/kubernetes-versions.html#kubernetes-release-calendar).

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [ ] Update the docs.
- [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [ ] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Added / Removed / Updated [X].

### Migration Guide

<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->

<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 6, 2022*

LGTM! Did you get a chance to run a regression test in `terraform-aws-eks`? If you don't know how, the steps are:

- Cut a alpha release (marked as pre-production) in this repo to get binaries
- Update the kubergrunt version in `.circleci/config.yml` to the alpha release tag in `terraform-aws-eks`
- For this one, I also recommend updating the default k8s version to `1.23` as well in the examples.
- Push branch to kick off circleci build
***

**autero1** commented *Sep 6, 2022*

Didn't run the regression test, yet. Thought I'd work on the `1.23` feature for `terraform-aws-eks` next and run the `kubergrunt` regression / integration tests as part of that. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 6, 2022*

> Didn't run the regression test, yet. Thought I'd work on the 1.23 feature for terraform-aws-eks next and run the kubergrunt regression / integration tests as part of that.

Ah gotcha. We need to run the regression test on the `terraform-aws-eks` repo before we merge this in since we don't have any tests in this repo that run through the `eks sync` code path. I think just having one test run through the existing k8s version is sufficient to merge this in, since that would confirm that at least this works with the existing k8s version.

Hope that makes sense!
***

**autero1** commented *Sep 7, 2022*

Makes sense! I'll cut an alpha release and test that in `terraform-aws-eks`.
***

**autero1** commented *Sep 7, 2022*

[Tests seemed to pass](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-eks?branch=feature%2Fk8s-123) with the alpha release, apart from the python test, which seems odd as no changes were made to those. Any idea why the python tests keep failing?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 7, 2022*

> apart from the python test, which seems odd as no changes were made to those. Any idea why the python tests keep failing?

Looks like an out of date version of `moto` is causing this. Here is the underlying error:

```
KeyError: 'me-central-1'
```
***

**autero1** commented *Sep 8, 2022*

Integration tests passed so merging this in. Thanks for the review!
***

