# Embed Helm to change ordering of polling

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 6, 2019*

**Motivation**

When testing `kubergrunt` on EKS, I ran into a bug where the `--wait` parameter of `helm init` causes trouble. When working off of a clean helm home directory, it appears that in order to poll for Tiller, `helm` requires the working TLS configuration to exist and so it fails the polling step of the deploy.

I still don't know why this works fine in `minikube`.

---

**Solution**

The solution implemented here is to break the polling step to be after the local client is configured. Since we require an RBAC entity to be passed during the deploy, it is guaranteed that we will always setup a new local helm client, so we can push the polling to be after this step.

However, in order to do this, we need more control over the deployment process. As such, I decided to embed helm into `kubergrunt` so we can call out to the underlying library functions. Unfortunately, much of it was hidden in private functions so I had to copy paste them here (FWIW, `terraform-helm-provider` does similar things).

---

**Additional Notes**

- Many of the `kubernetes` libraries don't implement `dep`. As a result, there is some hard coded dependency overrides in here that were discovered through dependency grunt work, manually going through `Godeps.json` and `glide.lock` files.
- Not all commands have been adapted to use the embedded helm library (namely `undeploy`). As a result, we still need the helm client to be installed. I punted on the work to adapt `undeploy` for now, since I think getting a deployable service helm chart is higher priority.
- There is a bugfix being sneaked in: the helm home directory will now be initialized as part of configure, so you can pass in a helm home directory that does not yet exist. This fixes an annoying issue where you had to run `helm repo update` after configure in order to actually use the client to install stuff.
- A lot of the refactored functionality is tested through the integration test. It is on my radar to pull the integration test out into its own file.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 6, 2019*

Merging. I'm going to implement another feature before releasing.
***

