# helm configure as data source

**yorinasub17** commented *May 3, 2019*

### Motivation

When using a TLS enabled Tiller instance, it is cumbersome to setup the helm provider in Terraform. Specifically, any operator machine that needs to access `helm` needs to run `kubergrunt helm configure` before running `terraform apply`. This has several failure modes:

- User forgot to run `configure`, and so terraform fails to authenticate to helm.
- User ran `configure` against a different Tiller and forgot to run `configure for the intended Tiller. This causes the terraform code to apply to the wrong Tiller instance.

To make this more robust, we want to store the helm authentication configuration as code.

We can work around this limitation by calling `kubergrunt helm configure` inline as a `local-exec` provisioner in Terraform. This has a few downsides, most notably being the inability to configure providers from resources. Ideally, we would like to call `kubergrunt helm configure` as an external data source. Additionally, this has the problem of requiring knowledge of the intended helm home directory beforehand. This can still lead to collisions, if the same helm home is used for each terraform call.

### Proposed solution

This change set updates `kubergrunt helm configure` with a new option `--as-tf-data`, which enables you to call it in an external data source. Passing this flag will cause the command to output the configured helm home directory in the output json on stdout at the end of the command.

Additionally, this proposes a new magic string you can set for `--helm-home` (arbitrary chosen to `__TMP__`). This magic string informs `kubergrunt` that the user intends to use a tmp directory for the configured helm home directory, and the command will use `ioutil.TempDir` to generate a new directory to use as the helm home.

The above two features, when used in combination, allows us to define helm credentials as code in terraform.

One major downside of this approach is that the credentials are still stored on disk on the client machine unencrypted. This can't be avoided because that is a strict requirement of helm in TLS authentication. This isn't a problem in CI environments, where the FS is thrown away in each run, but may be a problem for operators running terraform directly. The only saving grace is that using `__TMP__` makes it so that reboots will delete the directory on most operating systems.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *May 6, 2019*

Merging this in. Thanks for review!
***

