# Add helm revoke functionality

**bwhaley** commented *May 21, 2019*

Hi team, this PR adds the `kubergrunt helm revoke` feature to `kubergrunt`. I've started by updating `README.md` with clarity on precisely what this feature does (and does not do). Does this seem along the lines of what we'd want for this feature?
<br />
***


**robmorgan** commented *May 22, 2019*

Nice work @bwhaley 👍 
***

**bwhaley** commented *May 22, 2019*

@yorinasub17 @brikis98 @josh-padnick It seems a consensus has been reached that the grant/revoke process needs more rigorous testing. To do so, I can refactor the role/rolebinding operations to mirror how secrets are handled (e.g. via functions in the `kubectl` package as opposed to in `helm`). Then I'll write tests for role/rolebindings and for grant/revoke operations as per comments above. How does this sound?
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 22, 2019*

That sounds good to me!
***

**bwhaley** commented *May 23, 2019*

This most recent commit turns out to be fairly involved. Note that it's a WIP - still need to add tests and do a bit of clean up - but I'm interested in hearing if this is heading in the right direction. The tests are passing. I believe I've prevailed in an intense battle with the dependency snarl of helm, terratest, and kubernetes. Feedback on this WIP is welcome.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 23, 2019*

Also just wanted to let you know that I will be out the next two days so won't be able to check in on further updates until next Tuesday when I am back. Sorry about that, and really appreciate your contribution so far!

Feel free to hand off to me if you run out of time. I will be happy to take this further and get it merged once I'm back.
***

**bwhaley** commented *May 24, 2019*

Just pushed my latest changes per feedback above. Sadly I'm out of time to spend on this, but hopefully it's in a pretty decent place and can be easily merged from here. Thanks for all the feedback and review.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 28, 2019*

Thanks for your hard work @bwhaley ! I took on the torch and made a few polishing touches to take this across the finish line. You can see my commits on https://github.com/gruntwork-io/kubergrunt/pull/50/ for the changes I made.
***

