# [WIP] [RDD] Local tiller management

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 17, 2019*

Inspired by https://github.com/rimusz/helm-tiller and https://rimusz.net/tillerless-helm.

This is a proposal for a function in kubergrunt that optimizes the functionality of the `helm-tiller` plugin in the context of terraform. Specifically:

- Create a command that will start a local tiller server that can be used as a data source.
- This data source will provide the inputs for the `helm` provider.
- Create a command that can stop the local tiller server. This can be used as a clean up function in `terragrunt` in the after-hook.

Note that this is an alternative to using the plugin directly:

```
helm tiller run -- terraform apply
```

The advantage of embedding the tiller management into the terraform code is two fold:

- Avoid having to install both `helm` client and the `helm-tiller` plugin. This is based on the assumption that people will install `kubergrunt` for other uses.
- Avoid chaining multiple exec wrappers. For example, in EKS, to use the plugin, you will have to do:

```
aws-vault exec dev -- helm tiller run tiller_namespace -- terraform apply
```
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *Jun 18, 2019*

Not having to run Tiller sounds great!  Perhaps a dumb question, but if we're able to implement it as you've suggested, why hasn't the helm team already done the same? i.e., why is Tiller-less helm still in alpha and likely to be that way for a while longer?

One other quick sanity check: do we still absolutely need to use Terraform to deploy helm charts? If `kubergrunt` can do a local helm, is it possible to just use `kubergrunt` directly to deploy helm charts? It seems like a nice story to say that, to use K8S, you (a) deploy EKS with module XXX, (b) start deploying services by running `kubergrunt apply`. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 18, 2019*

> Do we still absolutely need to use Terraform to deploy helm charts?

We don't absolutely need to use Terraform, but if we move off of it, we need to figure out how to address the features we lose by doing that.

Here are the advantages that I think come with using terraform:

**Managing release names as code.**

To emphasize this point, if we don't use terraform and use helm directly, you need to provide the release name every time you want to make an update to the deployment. E.g suppose you had a live folder `frontend` with the values yaml file. You can deploy this using helm by doing `helm install -f values.yaml -n frontend --version 3.0.0 frontend`, which will install the `3.0.0` of the frontend chart as the release name `frontend`. Now suppose you wanted to make changes to the release and update the values file. To upgrade, you would do `helm upgrade -f values.yaml --version 3.0.0 frontend frontend`. Note the two positional arguments: the first one is the release name, while the second one is the chart name.

In terraform, the `tf` files will include the release name with the inputs:

```
resource "helm_release" "frontend" {
    name      = "frontend"
    chart     = "frontend"
    version    = "3.0.0"
    values = [
        "${file("values.yaml")}"
    ]
}
```

Note that as an alternative, we could implement functionality in `kubergrunt` to handle this, like getting the release name from the directory, but this is replacing an abstraction with another.

**Single interface**

Another nice, but minor advantage of using terraform is that you now have a single interface for all your deployments. Having a single interface is not only advantageous from an operator perspective, but it is also easier to maintain wrapper scripts as the inputs and outputs are consistent and predictable, leading to better code reuse.

**Interpolation Handoff**

Using terraform allows for interpolating `values.yaml` files. This has the nice effect of providing an interface to handoff values from terraform to helm/k8s.

**State Management**

Using terraform allows you to know if a particular `values.yaml` file has been applied in the form of the `plan` command.

---

I am open to reconsider this position though. If we decide we should stop using terraform for deploying helm releases, then this functionality isn't really needed as it doesn't offer enough benefits for us to take on the maintenance burden.

> why hasn't the helm team already done the same?

They have, which is the [helm-tiller plugin](https://github.com/rimusz/helm-tiller). Note that I address the differences in the PR description.

> why is Tiller-less helm still in alpha and likely to be that way for a while longer?

Helm v3 has other enhancements. Tillerless mode is just one part of it. See https://v3.helm.sh/docs/faq/#changes-since-helm-2.

Also, Tillerless helm in v3 works slightly differently. Here, we are still running Tiller: it's just local on the operator machine. In v3, Tiller doesn't need to be run because all the functionality is baked into the client.

> If kubergrunt can do a local helm, is it possible to just use kubergrunt directly to deploy helm charts? 

We could, but at that point we are reimplementing the `helm-tiller` plugin: https://github.com/rimusz/helm-tiller. Also, again, this is replacing an abstraction with another and I am not sure is worth considering, unless we have other features to roll in.
***

**robmorgan** commented *Aug 16, 2019*

Finally took a quick look at this PR and I can see the benefit. I've spoken to one customer actually that had implemented this locally in their own setup. 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 13, 2019*

Closing this. Helm 3 is imminent and we should reconsider everything here once that lands.
***

